Adam Shapiro is an analyst who was
director of Israel Palestine advocacy at
dawn human rights and foreign policy
Think Tank he joins us now from
Washington DC Adam US President Joe
Biden said that the US was looking into
reports and trying to determine what
happened in Gaza How concerned is the
White House about all this and will this
attack on Palestinians who were waiting
for Aid put pressure on the Biden
Administration to do more to push Israel
into entering a ceasefire
well to the first part of your question
uh I'm sure there is concern in the
White House about what the reports are
coming out and and what has clearly been
you know a tragic incident that was
entirely um avoidable uh there is
absolutely no reason that Israeli
soldiers should be opening fire on
crowds of Palestinians seeking uh to get
food and and other humanitarian Aid um
that said uh in terms of your second
part of your question about a
ceasefire uh I honestly I don't think
that this Administration has any
interest in moving uh things forward
towards achieving a lasting permanent
ceasefire and certainly one that would
make a meaningful difference in the
lives of Palestinians in Gaza I think uh
the Biden Administration is very much on
a timetable of um what the American
elections are driving which is
unfortunately November um and it's only
at that point uh after the outcome of
the elections here are determined that
we might see decisive Movement by the
Biden Administration I say that with
just the one caveat basically that you
know something
really and this sounds trivial to say it
at this point given how many people have
been killed in Gaza but something
catastrophically bad happening in Gaza
might shift things in a way but 112 dead
in one incident in Gaza as people in
Gaza know that's a day in Gaza that's a
normal day in Gaza at this point and
unfortunately that's not shifting things
for the Biden Administration Adam
there's a huge amount of concern about
the levels of hunger in Gaza un
officials have warned that at least one
quarter of the population there is one
step away from famine without urgent
action will mounting International
outrage over this incident compel Israel
into allowing more Aid into
Gaza I I don't think so and I think we
have to Now understand the true nature
of what going on what we're what we are
hearing is that there's more talk
perhaps even from the United States of
using these uh aerial uh airdrops of Aid
which pose uh challenges and problems in
and of themselves and are completely
insufficient for the need um on the
ground what we're hearing from a Aid
organizations themselves is that they
also after this incident are very
concerned and have been very concerned
about the security of their trucks and
their truck drivers going in um the
situation is chaotic as the images
definitely shown and is totally
understandable given the starvation that
people are facing and the complete lack
of assistance that they're receiving
what is needed is unequivocally a
permanent clear uh lasting ceasefire
with Israeli troops leaving entirely
Gaza so that Palestinians and some form
of Palestinian Authority can return to
maintain order in the area and a proper
Aid operation and beginning of a
reconstruction operation can begin and
Adam if I could just go back to
something you mentioned a moment ago
which is that there are these reports
that the US is weighing airdropping Aid
into Gaza other countries are also
airdropping Aid into Gaza Jordan did so
in the past couple of days how effective
is this as a means to get humanitarian
Aid to a population that is suffering
through this humanitarian
catastrophe no this is this is not even
a Band-Aid on the problem at this point
uh the the planes can't carry that much
material it's it would be far more
effective to allow uh trucks uh in uh at
numbers that are are necessary uh not
you know the kind of trickle that's
being allowed in at this point um and
people are afraid certainly when they're
going out to try to collect that Aid
even in the the zones that have been
declared safe uh as we saw from this
incident uh there's no such thing as
safe in Gaza as long as Israeli troops
are there and as long as Israel
continues to bombard from the out
outside of Gaza uh what is absolutely
needed this has always been a political
issue and it needs to have a political
solution with a ceasefire implemented
and ensured and guaranteed basically by
the United States all right Adam Shapiro
great to get your perspective thanks so
much for joining us here on Al
jazer thank you